welcome to us pcs TBA experience this is
your chance to compete on the same Lane
conditions faced by us on the PBA Tour
I'm Chris Barnes along with all world
Tommy Jones and this week you're going
to face the cheetah pattern it's a
35-foot pattern it's the shortest
pattern on tour and it's almost also the
highest risk reward pattern that's right
Chris this pattern is our source pattern
the scores tend to be a lot higher but
you can also get yourself in a lot of
trouble if you don't use the right ball
and get in the right spot of the lane so
we're going to help you with that here
today typically with this short pattern
you have to play with your break point
further to the right and you're going to
have to play pretty straight if you're a
low red player and for someone like you
you might have to hook it a lot more
yeah I tend to use weaker weaker balls
with strong drills try to get the ball
through the front part of the lane get
that ball to the spot that I want to get
to that way the drill kind of help it
roll off of it opposed a jerk off of but
the week ball get it to that spot so if
you have high tilt or high revs you're
going to want to play left and you're
going to use stronger balls they're
stronger drills with weaker weaker balls
for the most part the common denominator
here is getting your ball right off I
don't really care how you do it we just
whatever is comfortable for you whether
or not you want to do it from the left
of the one like I do it or if you want
to do it over it's closer to the right
like Chris and Walter right to it all
we've seen just about everything you do
seems to be comfortable for you on this
pattern so for the rest of us though are
mere mortals myself I have to use
stronger balls play them a little bit
straighter and try and control that over
hook off the gutter and the straighter
players will stand right on top of that
friction on five now let's go to the
graph of the pattern as you can see
there's a heavy concentration of oil on
the front part of the lane and you can
see the pattern tapers in its only 35
feet it's short that means there's 25
feet of hook at the end of this pattern
and you're going to have to find the
furthest point right of the lane with
friction and that's outside the fifth
board I think we're going to go show you
some videos here of some of the tapes we
have from the motel six term a couple
years ago which by the way you did win
so I don't really know why you're asking
me and tell me that you know it's me
because you've won this tournament twice
on this pattern so but we'll watch the
video it's nice to you to share once in
a while one of the first sex you'll see
here is Tommy doing what he always does
on TV
and that's running him over got that one
a little you know you can see that one
got too far the right I didn't really
like it a whole lot it tried to go high
but fortunately have the right ball in
my hand to get to slow down a little bit
what made that the right ball well
because it didn't overreact when I got
to go you know if I use a different ball
there and get it all the way out there
the gutter it's going to overreact and
go high and then when i get one in a
little bit it's not going to pick up and
roll enough and then i'm going to now i
got both disasters i got big for any to
talk and that's where the strong
drilling came into play for you yet the
strong drilling got to roll off of it
opposed the dirt off of it and the week
ball still you'll see in a second here
we're going to show you a tape where i
get one a little left it just kind of
lazy a little bit and this surface we
were born here was a guardian surface
lots and lots of friction so you had to
use the week ball to get it down the
lane that one still had plenty energy in
the back yeah that was that was probably
the best one of the three we're going to
show you here and what we're trying to
show you here is that you don't have to
be perfect on this pattern if you get
the right ball on your hand you can
throw a lot of strikes and you know your
stomach the scores go up you're going to
have a lot of fun lead time after the
break Patrick Allen will get his
perspective on the cheetah hey Patrick
are you comfortable in this pattern
Chris I'm from the 80s I like living on
the edge and with that we'll be right
back
70 million men women and children enjoy
America's number-one participation sport
bowling as its governing body the United
States Bowling Congress strives to keep
the ball rolling for veteran athletes
and new enthusiasts with certified
leagues coaching programs and innovative
equipment testing join the momentum of
America's favorite participation sport
bowl with us welcome back joining us in
our discussion about the teether is
former player of the year patrick allen
patrick how do you attack this batter
Chris you know unfortunately I don't
think myself in your reverence are as
high as Tommy Jones so I think we got to
get a little bit more out to the gutter
out of the gate and get on top of that
dry spot and get your ball to read the
spot the right way looking at some video
here and this is one of the most
impressive Scouts I've seen in quite a
while when you only get one you know one
a year you got to make sure it's a good
one he did that there that was a pretty
good one that yeah I don't know what
he's doing trying to get the crowd I
think it shocked him more than anything
else you got you got that right cuz you
know I felt like Tommy John for a second
I don't know what was going on here's
another shot this one I think runs right
through the back of the building too
yeah this is uh this is this is a good
one here you got this one right where he
wanted to got to go to the pins right
way and you know one of those good shots
we've been trying to get right ball
right for accommodation and everything
Emily what kind of doings views on this
pattern Patrick actually Chris I i go up
with stronger balls but we core
drillings Tommy's trying to get involved
in front a little bit more so he'll use
weaker bowling balls but with stronger
layouts if you're ever AIT's a little
bit lower like on 14 minus I think you
have to go the other way absolutely and
well none of us are Tommy Jones once the
camera lights come on so exactly right
don't think that you've struggled very
much on TV Patrick and Chris bars is 1
this term at twice he's made four
thousand dollars in this motel six world
richest thing and it's pretty much as my
career earnings and in two tournaments
here so I don't think I need to be
hearing it from you right about now all
right you know what that's a pretty good
point so why are you even asking me how
to play this pattern when basically
Chris's 10
money on it I'm just lucky but actually
I bowled Tommy on this pattern earlier
in the year and he only beat me by 50 so
it Wow yeah that's actually not bad
considering every other tournament
that's closer than most I should shut
200 item on TV that's better than I
haven't got there yet not even close we
know if you weren't such a tightwad
you'd actually took us to dinner with it
for 1,000 dollars but unfortunately it's
still in your pocket with the lint Wow I
might even go in there well on that note
I think we're at a time for Tommy Jones
and Patrick Allen both former player of
the years on chris barnes who is not
thanks for joining us enjoy your PBA
experience